Invitation really is built into human nature.
It's one of our most used and powerful learning tools.
I mean, think of all the things that you've learned by imitation,
even just think of the current work assignment you have or your job.
How much of it did you learn by just watching someone else do that work?
Children imitate their parents when they learn how to speak, think, eat,
and even walk just like them.
Children even learn to imitate the very subtle accents of their parents
and those accents get passed on from one generation to the next.
I've had people say to me,
John, you walk just like your father.
I have no idea how that happened.
Sometimes we imitate others
and we don't even know that we're doing it.
I've ever been listening to the radio
and a few hours later you're humming or singing a song
and you realize that that was the very song that was on the radio
several hours ago.
Imitation is such a part of the human learning experience
that we're doing it all the time.
We can't turn it off.
Imitation is also used by animals to learn their skills by watching their parents.
I saw the cutest example of this when we were watching a herd of elephants in Zambia
and the mother elephant and the baby elephant were walking by
and the baby elephant was trying to grab some grass
and tear it off and put it in his mouth like his mother was.
But every time he did it, he ended up with nothing.
But he was sure watching his mom how she was doing it
and seeing how he could imitate and get some of that for himself.
Well, since imitation is such a powerful learning tool
and has such an effect on the person we are
and the person that we are to become,
we need to be very careful about who we choose to imitate.
Who do you choose to imitate?
We'll see who we choose to imitate determines who we want to become.
That's why there's so much caution in the scriptures about our association
because who we choose to imitate rubs off on us, so to speak
in subtle ways that we might not even notice right away.
Notice the counsel given to the Israelites
about not imitating the nations around them.
If you look at Exodus chapter 23 and verse 24,
notice the counsel that Jehovah gave to the Israelites.
He said, you must not bow down to their gods
or be persuaded to serve them
and you must not imitate their practices.
And he continues this thought in Deuteronomy chapter 18 and verse 9,
Deuteronomy 18, verse 9,
it says, when you have entered into the land
that Jehovah your God is giving you,
you must not learn to imitate the detestable practices
of those nations.
Well, what happened when the Israelites chose
to imitate the nations around them,
to ignore the advice Jehovah had given them?
Well, let's look at 2 Kings chapter 17, verse 15.
2 Kings 17, 15.
Does they continued rejecting his regulations and his covenant
that he had made with their forefathers
and his reminders that he had given to warn them
and they kept following worthless idols.
And notice what happened to them when they did that
and became worthless themselves.
Imitating the nations all around them
that Jehovah had commanded them not to imitate.
So if we imitate worthless things,
what's going to happen to us, we're going to be worthless.
If we fast forward to Christian times,
we can see that the same advice was given to us.
If we look at 3 John and verse 11,
very straightforward advice.
Beloved one, do not imitate what is bad,
but imitate what is good.
The one who does good originates with God.
The one who does bad has not seen God.
The message is clear.
If we want to see God or have a good relationship with Jehovah,
then we need to imitate what is good.
And our text for today in Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 1
really says it about as simply and clearly as we can,
become imitators of God.
So Jehovah is telling us in our text for today,
imitate me.
So someone asks us, who do you choose to imitate?
In the case of Ephesians 5, 1, we want to imitate Jehovah.
Well, how can we imitate Jehovah?
Well, first one way is by reading the Bible.
We have learned love, hope, faith, loyalty,
and so many other fine qualities
by reading about how Jehovah wants us to conduct ourselves.
I mean, look at the law that Jehovah gave to the nation of Israel.
We can learn so much about how Jehovah feels about being honest,
clean, fair, just.
Or in different Bible examples,
we see Jehovah's patience in dealing with Jonah
and his mercy in dealing with the Ninevites.
Reading the Bible gives us a very clear picture
of our perfect God, Jehovah, we worship,
and he gives us the perfect role model to imitate.
When we read the Bible and continually ask ourselves,
what do I learn about Jehovah
and how can I learn to imitate him,
that really is like us keeping our eye on Jehovah
with our minds eye and watching what he's doing
and we're imitating him.
Another way that we can imitate Jehovah
is by imitating others who are imitating him.
Jehovah's use the pages of the Bible
to give us real life stories of people that we can imitate.
I mean, we've never met Abraham and Sarah,
but don't you feel like you know them?
Sure, there's much more that we can learn
about these beautiful spiritual people in the New World,
but what is laid out in the scriptures is enough
for us to imitate the beautiful examples they set for us.
Or what about Jesus?
We've never met Jesus.
But by reading the Bible accounts,
don't you feel like you know him
and that you know how he would react
and think about certain situations?
The Apostle Paul simply explained this
in 1 Corinthians 111,
he said, become imitators of me as I am of Christ.
So we have Jesus Christ as an example of imitating his father.
The Apostle Paul was imitating Christ.
Now, the Apostle Paul, of course, wasn't saying,
imitate the way I give my talks, imitate the way I move,
imitate the way I walk or say things.
But in Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 7,
he stressed what it was that we were to imitate about others.
Hebrews 13, 7, remember those who were taking the lead among you
who have spoken the word of God to you
and as you contemplate how their conduct turns out,
imitate their faith.
So we are to imitate the faith,
an example that others set in imitating Jesus
and imitating Jehovah.
Now, to illustrate the choice that we have
of who we're going to imitate,
I'd like you to imagine in your mind two big, huge machines
with lots of parts.
Now, one machine is run by Jehovah in Jesus Christ
and the other machine is run by Satan and the world.
And I want to imagine that you're a part on the mechanics bench.
When Jehovah goes to pick you up and look at you
and see, do you fit as a part
in his organization?
Well, we can, if we imitate him and other spiritual people
who are useful to Jehovah,
we can become a useful part of his beautiful organization.
If we imitate Jehovah, then Satan,
if he goes over to that bench and picks it up
and tries to put it into his machine,
it's not going to fit anywhere.
We are no part of his world or organization.
I mean, how sad it would be if we shaped
and imitated ourselves after the world
and when Satan picked us up, we fit right in
with his machine and organization.
So, who do you choose to imitate?
We choose to imitate Jehovah.
We want to be just like him when we grow up.
How can we imitate Jehovah
by getting to know him personally through reading the Bible
and imitating others that are imitating him?